Clarify rules for redundant arms (#1693)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/patterns.md

## 11.3 Pattern subsumption

In a switch statement ([§13.8.3](statements.md#1383-the-switch-statement)), it is an error if a case’s pattern is *subsumed* by the preceding set of *unguarded* ([§13.8.3](statements.md#1383-the-switch-statement)) cases. In a switch expression ([§12.11](expressions.md#1211-switch-expression)), it is an error if a *switch_expression_arm*’s pattern is *subsumed* by the preceding set of *unguarded* *switch_expression_arm*s’ patterns.

> Informally, this means that any input value would have been matched by one of the previous cases or arms.

Reviewer: As it is informal should it not be a Note, something like:

```suggestion
> *Note*: This means that any input value would have been matched by one of the previous cases or arms. *end note*
```

- `P` is a var pattern and the set of patterns `Q` is *exhaustive* ([§11.4](patterns.md#114-pattern-exhaustiveness)) for the type of the pattern input value ([§11.1](patterns.md#111-general)), and either the pattern input value is not of a nullable type or some pattern in `Q` would match `null`.
- `P` is a declaration pattern with type `T` and the set of patterns `Q` is *exhaustive* for the type `T` ([§11.4](patterns.md#114-pattern-exhaustiveness)).

> > *Note*: Only *unguarded* cases or arms ([§13.8.3](statements.md#1383-the-switch-statement)) contribute to subsumption; a *case_guard* whose expression is not a constant expression with the value `true` cannot in general be evaluated at compile time, so the corresponding case or arm is conservatively assumed not to match every input value to which its pattern is applicable. *end note*

Reviewer: I’m a little wary about explaining the restriction. Consider the example below: 

- `b` is a simple variable and so evaluating it has no side-effect, the uses on lines 436 & 437 will return the same value for `b`;
- now consider the situation of changing the guard on line 437 to `!b`, the arm becomes unreachable (as line 436 always takes precedence) and yet is not “subsumed”…

An implementation could catch that, indeed there is already a requirement that if the guard is a constant expression evaluating to `true` then the arm must be treated as unguarded and included in subsumption analysis. The step from there to the guard having no-side effect and repeated on more than one arm is a fairly small step.

Something to feed into the discussion on #1691 maybe?

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD028 -->

> <!-- markdownlint-enable MD028 -->

Author: Removing per discussion at the meeting:

```suggestion
```
